How to share links to dapps on different platforms (#1840)
dfinity/portal: docs/developer-docs/production/social-sharing.md

# Sharing links to dapps

## Overview

Since service workers are not supported in all settings (especially on mobile),
it is important to use the `raw` links (e.g., [oa7fk-maaaa-aaaam-abgka-cai.raw.icp0.io](https://oa7fk-maaaa-aaaam-abgka-cai.raw.icp0.io))
when sharing links on different platforms (e.g., LinkedIn or Twitter/X). This guide
provides the necessary background and explains how to configure your asset
canister correctly, such that you can share links to your dapp without hiccups.

## Context

To directly access dapps hosted on the Internet Computer via a browser,

> an HTTP gateway is required. This gateway translates browser HTTP requests into API canister calls,
> is required. Currently, there are two instances of this HTTP gateway, providing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an HTTP gateway is required. This gateway processing between browser HTTP requests into API canister calls,
is required. Currently, there are two instances of this HTTP gateway, providing
```

2. `raw`: the translation happens remotely on the boundary nodes and is transparent
to the user. `raw` access is available through the `<canister_id>.raw.icp0.io` domains
(e.g., [oa7fk-maaaa-aaaam-abgka-cai.raw.icp0.io](https://oa7fk-maaaa-aaaam-abgka-cai.raw.icp0.io)).

Service workers are not universally supported, especially on mobile devices.
In-App Web-Views, Firefox Privacy Mode, and Google translate, for example, do not
function with service workers and thus do not support `non-raw` dapp access.

This is relevant when sharing dapp links on other platforms like
LinkedIn or Twitter. When users try to open a `non-raw` link, for example, from
within the LinkedIn dapp, it is opened in an In-App Web-View, which does not
support service workers and therefore simply displays an error message.

:::caution
For custom domains there is no `raw` equivalent. If you want to share a link,
you should use the corresponding `<canister_id>.raw.icp0.io` domain.
:::

## Solution

To enable universal dapp access through a shared link, it is
essential to share the `raw` version (i.e., `<canister_id>.raw.icp0.io`) to bypass
the service worker.

However, two key details must be noted:

> 1. Starting from `dfx 0.13.1`, asset canisters redirect requests for `raw` to

Reviewer: maybe worth noting here as an alternative to use the new dfx for new canisters since they've already changed it there https://github.com/dfinity/sdk/releases/tag/0.14.4-beta.0
